# Database Interfaces

## What does this interface serve?

This is a collection of interfaces that are used to interact with the database. The interfaces are implemented by the classes in the `teampixl.com.pixlpos.database.interfaces` package. Each interface is implemented in the DataStore.java class in the 
`teampixl.com.pixlpos.database` package. The implementation classes are responsible for interacting with the database and returning the results to the calling code. In simple each interface is a contract that defines the methods that the implementation 
class must implement. These are basic CRUD operations that are used to interact with the database. Each class in the `teampixl.com.pixlpos.database.interfaces` package is responsible for a specific type of data. For example, the UserInterface is responsible for
interacting with the User table in the database. The MenuItemsInterface is responsible for interacting with the MenuItems table in the database. The OrdersInterface is responsible for interacting with the Orders table in the database. These interfaces make up the
DataStore API that is used to interact with the database.

## How to use this?

To use these interfaces, you need to create an instance of the DataStore class and call the methods defined in the interface. The DataStore class will handle the database operations and return the results to the calling code. A list of all the interfaces and their methods
is given below; each method corresponds to a specific DataStore API operation:
```
UserInterface
    - getUsers() : List<Users>
    - getUser(String username) : Users
    - addUser(Users user) : void
    - updateUser(Users user) : void
    - removeUser(Users user) : void
    - updateUserPassword(Users user, String newPassword) : void

MenuItemsInterface
    - getMenuItems() : List<MenuItem>
    - addMenuItem(MenuItem item) : void
    - removeMenuItem(MenuItem item) : void
    - getMenuItem(String itemName) : MenuItem
    - updateMenuItem(MenuItem item) : void

OrdersInterface
    - getOrders() : List<Order>
    - addOrder(Order order) : void
    - removeOrder(Order order) : void
    - updateOrder(Order order) : void
    - addOrderItem(Order order, MenuItem item, int quantity) : void
    - removeOrderItem(Order order, MenuItem item, int quantity) : void
    - updateOrderItem(Order order, MenuItem item, int newQuantity) : void
```

